README.md, before:

# Tibia Nemesis Discord Bot

We Vibin'
A Discord bot for tracking and announcing Tibia boss spawns with real-time spawn predictions. The bot integrates with a Go REST API that scrapes spawn data from tibia-statistic.com and applies intelligent filtering based on boss spawn patterns.

## Features

### 🎯 Boss Checker
- **Real-time spawn predictions** with percentage chances
- **Interactive button interface** to mark bosses as checked
- **Color-coded status indicators**:
  - ✅ Green (0-15 min) - Recently checked
  - ❕ Green (15-30 min) - Some time passed
  - ‼️ Blue (30-60 min) - Needs attention
  - ⏰ Red (60+ min) - Long overdue
- **Auto-refresh daily** at 10:00 CET (30 min after API refresh)
- **Boss filtering** by spawn probability using inclusion_range logic
- **Multi-world support** - Configure different Tibia worlds per server

### 📢 Boss Announcements
- **Role mentions** for boss spawns
- **Coming/Ready signup buttons** with user lists
- **Recent check history** showing last 4 checks
- **Raid detection** with special formatting
- **Kill confirmation** button (creator/manage messages only)
- **Channel management** - Configure which channels allow announcements

### 💰 Price List
- Boss service pricing information
- Role-based pricing display

### 🔥 Fury Gate Tracker
- Track which Fury Gate city is active
- Supports 10 different cities
- Persists across bot restarts
- Updates Furyosa button label automatically

## Architecture

The bot follows a feature-based architecture with separation of concerns:

```
GolluxBot/
├── main.py                 # Bot entry point
├── features/
│   ├── Checker.py          # Boss checker with interactive UI
│   ├── CheckerUpdater.py   # API client for spawn data
│   ├── BossAnnouncer.py    # Boss announcement system
│   ├── Bosses.py           # Boss metadata (emoji, roles, prices)
│   ├── RoleHandler.py      # Role management
│   └── PriceList.py        # Service pricing
├── Database.py             # SQLite wrapper
└── tibia-nemesis-api/      # Go REST API (separate repo)
```

## Prerequisites

- **Python 3.8+**
- **Go 1.21+** (for API server)
- **Discord Bot Token** from [Discord Developer Portal](https://discord.com/developers/applications)
- **Tibia Nemesis API** running (see [tibia-nemesis-api/GETTING_STARTED.md](tibia-nemesis-api/GETTING_STARTED.md))

## Quick Start

### 1. Set Up the Go API

The bot requires the Tibia Nemesis API to be running. See [tibia-nemesis-api/GETTING_STARTED.md](tibia-nemesis-api/GETTING_STARTED.md) for detailed setup instructions.

### 2. Install Bot Dependencies

```powershell
pip install discord.py aiohttp pyyaml
```

### 3. Configure Discord Token

Create a `token.txt` file in the project root:
```
your_discord_bot_token_here
```

Or set environment variable:
```powershell
$env:DISCORD_TOKEN="your_token_here"
```

### 4. Set API URL (Optional)

```powershell
$env:API_BASE_URL="http://localhost:8080"
```

Default is `http://localhost:8080` if not set.

### 5. Run the Bot

```powershell
python main.py
```

## Discord Bot Setup

### Required Permissions

- Send Messages
- Embed Links
- Manage Messages (for checker updates)
- Use Slash Commands
- Add Reactions

### Bot Intents

The bot requires the following intents:
- `members` - For member information
- `message_content` - For message handling

## Configuration

### Per-Server Setup

1. **Set Boss Announcement Channel**
   ```
   /setupbosschannel
   ```
   Run in the channel where you want boss announcements.

2. **Configure Tibia World**
   ```
   /checkerworld <world>
   ```
   Choose from available worlds (Kalanta, etc.)

3. **Set Up Checker**
   ```
   /checker <channel>
   ```
   Register the channel for the interactive boss checker.

4. **Set Fury Gate City**
   ```
   /furygate <city>
   ```
   Select which Fury Gate city is active.

## Commands

| Command | Description | Permissions |
|---------|-------------|-------------|
| `/boss <role> [message]` | Announce a boss spawn | None |
| `/checkerworld <world>` | Set the Tibia world | Manage Server |
| `/checker <channel>` | Set checker channel | Manage Server/Channels |
| `/checkerrefresh` | Force refresh checker cache | Manage Server |
| `/setupbosschannel` | Register channel for announcements | Manage Channels |
| `/removebosschannel` | Unregister channel | Manage Channels |
| `/furygate <city>` | Set active Fury Gate city | None |

## Data Flow

```
tibia-statistic.com
        ↓
   Go API Server
   (see tibia-nemesis-api/README.md)
        ↓
   Discord Bot
   ├── Fetches filtered data at 10:00 CET
   ├── Updates checker UI
   └── Shows only spawnable bosses
```

## Database Schema

The bot uses SQLite with the following tables:

- `checker_config` - Channel configuration per guild
- `checker_worlds` - World selection per guild
- `checker_messages` - Message IDs for updates
- `boss_channels` - Registered announcement channels
- `furygate` - Fury Gate city per guild

## Boss Metadata

Boss configuration in `features/Bosses.py`:

```python
'Furyosa': {
    'name': 'Furyosa',
    'emoji': 'furyosa',
    'role': 'Furyosa',
    'price': 600000,
    'raid': False,
    'persist': False,
    'serversave': False,
}
```

**Fields:**
- `name` - Display name
- `emoji` - App emoji identifier
- `role` - Discord role name to mention
- `price` - Service price in gold
- `raid` - Whether this is a raid boss
- `persist` - Always show (ignores spawn predictions)
- `serversave` - Reset button state at server save
- `check_thresholds` - Custom timing for button colors (warn/alert/reset in minutes)

## How It Works

### Adding a New Boss

1. Add to `features/Bosses.py`:
   ```python
   'New Boss': {
       'name': 'New Boss',
       'emoji': 'newboss',
       'role': 'New Boss',
       'price': 200000,
   }
   ```

2. Add to appropriate area in `features/Checker.py` AREAS dict

## How It Works

The bot fetches pre-filtered boss spawn data from the Go API. The API handles:
- Web scraping from tibia-statistic.com
- Extracting spawn percentages and days since last kill
- Applying inclusion_range filtering based on spawn patterns
- Daily refresh at 09:00 CET

The bot handles:
- Displaying spawn data in Discord
- Interactive button interface for marking checks
- Boss announcements and signups
- Per-server configuration

For API details, see [tibia-nemesis-api/README.md](tibia-nemesis-api/README.md).

### Adding a New Feature

1. Create `features/YourFeature.py` extending `IFeature`
2. Implement `on_ready()` to register commands
3. Register in `main.py`:
   ```python
   self.features = [
       YourFeature(self),
       # ... other features
   ]
   ```

## Troubleshooting

### Bot shows no spawnable bosses

1. Check API is running: `curl http://localhost:8080/api/v1/status`
2. Verify world is configured: `/checkerworld`
3. Force refresh: `/checkerrefresh`
4. Check bot logs for API connection errors
5. Verify `API_BASE_URL` environment variable is correct

### Commands not appearing

1. Wait a few minutes for Discord to sync
2. Check bot has "Use Slash Commands" permission
3. Restart bot to re-register commands

### API Issues

See [tibia-nemesis-api/GETTING_STARTED.md](tibia-nemesis-api/GETTING_STARTED.md) for API troubleshooting.

## Performance Notes

- **Debounced updates**: Button clicks are debounced to prevent rate limits
- **Message caching**: Messages are cached to avoid repeated API calls
- **Smart refresh**: Only updates when visual state changes
- **Cached spawn data**: Percentage map cached per guild (60s TTL)

## License

MIT License - See LICENSE file for details

## Contributing

Contributions welcome! Please:
1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Test your changes
4. Submit a pull request

## Support

For issues and questions:
- GitHub Issues: [Create an issue](https://github.com/andresaaf/tibia-nemesis-bot-discord/issues)
- Discord: Join our community server (link TBD)

## Credits

- Boss spawn data from [tibia-statistic.com](https://www.tibia-statistic.com/)
- Built with [discord.py](https://github.com/Rapptz/discord.py)
- API built with Go and [chi router](https://github.com/go-chi/chi)

Commit message:

Add highscore tracking feature for boss kills and leaderboard

README.md, after:

# Tibia Nemesis Discord Bot

We Vibin'
A Discord bot for tracking and announcing Tibia boss spawns with real-time spawn predictions. The bot integrates with a Go REST API that scrapes spawn data from tibia-statistic.com and applies intelligent filtering based on boss spawn patterns.

## Features

### 🎯 Boss Checker
- **Real-time spawn predictions** with percentage chances
- **Interactive button interface** to mark bosses as checked
- **Color-coded status indicators**:
  - ✅ Green (0-15 min) - Recently checked
  - ❕ Green (15-30 min) - Some time passed
  - ‼️ Blue (30-60 min) - Needs attention
  - ⏰ Red (60+ min) - Long overdue
- **Auto-refresh daily** at 10:00 CET (30 min after API refresh)
- **Boss filtering** by spawn probability using inclusion_range logic
- **Multi-world support** - Configure different Tibia worlds per server

### 📢 Boss Announcements
- **Role mentions** for boss spawns
- **Coming/Ready signup buttons** with user lists
- **Recent check history** showing last 4 checks
- **Raid detection** with special formatting
- **Kill confirmation** button (creator/manage messages only)
- **Channel management** - Configure which channels allow announcements

### 💰 Price List
- Boss service pricing information
- Role-based pricing display

### 🔥 Fury Gate Tracker
- Track which Fury Gate city is active
- Supports 10 different cities
- Persists across bot restarts
- Updates Furyosa button label automatically

### 🏆 Highscore System
- **Track boss kills** with finder and reward information
- **Automatic reward calculation** based on number of participants
- **Leaderboard ranking** by bosses found (primary) and total money (secondary)
- **Per-guild leaderboards** with automatic updates in a single message
- **Kill history** with timestamps for audit trails
- **Supports up to 50 participants** in one leaderboard post

#### How Highscore Works
When a boss kill is recorded via the boss announcement:
1. Finder clicks the **Got Kill** button (only after skull button enables killed mode)
2. Money is calculated as: `boss_price × number_of_other_participants`
3. The finder is excluded from the money calculation (only others count)
4. All data is locked at the moment the button is clicked
5. The leaderboard automatically updates in the designated channel, showing as many participants as can fit in a single post (ranked by bosses found, then total money)

## Architecture

The bot follows a feature-based architecture with separation of concerns:

```
GolluxBot/
├── main.py                 # Bot entry point
├── features/
│   ├── Checker.py          # Boss checker with interactive UI
│   ├── CheckerUpdater.py   # API client for spawn data
│   ├── BossAnnouncer.py    # Boss announcement system
│   ├── Highscore.py        # Highscore leaderboard tracking
│   ├── Bosses.py           # Boss metadata (emoji, roles, prices)
│   ├── RoleHandler.py      # Role management
│   └── PriceList.py        # Service pricing
├── Database.py             # SQLite wrapper
└── tibia-nemesis-api/      # Go REST API (separate repo)
```

## Prerequisites

- **Python 3.8+**
- **Go 1.21+** (for API server)
- **Discord Bot Token** from [Discord Developer Portal](https://discord.com/developers/applications)
- **Tibia Nemesis API** running (see [tibia-nemesis-api/GETTING_STARTED.md](tibia-nemesis-api/GETTING_STARTED.md))

## Quick Start

### 1. Set Up the Go API

The bot requires the Tibia Nemesis API to be running. See [tibia-nemesis-api/GETTING_STARTED.md](tibia-nemesis-api/GETTING_STARTED.md) for detailed setup instructions.

### 2. Install Bot Dependencies

```powershell
pip install discord.py aiohttp pyyaml
```

### 3. Configure Discord Token

Create a `token.txt` file in the project root:
```
your_discord_bot_token_here
```

Or set environment variable:
```powershell
$env:DISCORD_TOKEN="your_token_here"
```

### 4. Set API URL (Optional)

```powershell
$env:API_BASE_URL="http://localhost:8080"
```

Default is `http://localhost:8080` if not set.

### 5. Run the Bot

```powershell
python main.py
```

## Discord Bot Setup

### Required Permissions

- Send Messages
- Embed Links
- Manage Messages (for checker updates)
- Use Slash Commands
- Add Reactions

### Bot Intents

The bot requires the following intents:
- `members` - For member information
- `message_content` - For message handling

## Configuration

### Per-Server Setup

1. **Set Boss Announcement Channel**
   ```
   /setupbosschannel
   ```
   Run in the channel where you want boss announcements.

2. **Configure Tibia World**
   ```
   /checkerworld <world>
   ```
   Choose from available worlds (Kalanta, etc.)

3. **Set Up Checker**
   ```
   /checker <channel>
   ```
   Register the channel for the interactive boss checker.

4. **Set Fury Gate City**
   ```
   /furygate <city>
   ```
   Select which Fury Gate city is active.

5. **Set Highscore Channel** (Optional)
   ```
   /highscorechannel <channel>
   ```
   Designate a channel for the highscore leaderboard.

## Commands

| Command | Description | Permissions |
|---------|-------------|-------------|
| `/boss <role> [message]` | Announce a boss spawn | None |
| `/checkerworld <world>` | Set the Tibia world | Manage Server |
| `/checker <channel>` | Set checker channel | Manage Server/Channels |
| `/checkerrefresh` | Force refresh checker cache | Manage Server |
| `/setupbosschannel` | Register channel for announcements | Manage Channels |
| `/removebosschannel` | Unregister channel | Manage Channels |
| `/furygate <city>` | Set active Fury Gate city | None |
| `/highscorechannel <channel>` | Set highscore leaderboard channel | Manage Server |

## Data Flow

```
tibia-statistic.com
        ↓
   Go API Server
   (see tibia-nemesis-api/README.md)
        ↓
   Discord Bot
   ├── Fetches filtered data at 10:00 CET
   ├── Updates checker UI
   └── Shows only spawnable bosses
```

## Database Schema

The bot uses SQLite with the following tables:

- `checker_config` - Channel configuration per guild
- `checker_worlds` - World selection per guild
- `checker_messages` - Message IDs for updates
- `boss_channels` - Registered announcement channels
- `furygate` - Fury Gate city per guild
- `highscore_config` - Highscore leaderboard channel per guild
- `highscore_kills` - Individual kill records with finder, boss, money, and timestamp
- `highscore_stats` - Aggregated statistics per user (bosses found, total money)

## Boss Metadata

Boss configuration in `features/Bosses.py`:

```python
'Furyosa': {
    'name': 'Furyosa',
    'emoji': 'furyosa',
    'role': 'Furyosa',
    'price': 600000,
    'raid': False,
    'persist': False,
    'serversave': False,
}
```

**Fields:**
- `name` - Display name
- `emoji` - App emoji identifier
- `role` - Discord role name to mention
- `price` - Service price in gold
- `raid` - Whether this is a raid boss
- `persist` - Always show (ignores spawn predictions)
- `serversave` - Reset button state at server save
- `check_thresholds` - Custom timing for button colors (warn/alert/reset in minutes)

## How It Works

### Adding a New Boss

1. Add to `features/Bosses.py`:
   ```python
   'New Boss': {
       'name': 'New Boss',
       'emoji': 'newboss',
       'role': 'New Boss',
       'price': 200000,
   }
   ```

2. Add to appropriate area in `features/Checker.py` AREAS dict

## How It Works

The bot fetches pre-filtered boss spawn data from the Go API. The API handles:
- Web scraping from tibia-statistic.com
- Extracting spawn percentages and days since last kill
- Applying inclusion_range filtering based on spawn patterns
- Daily refresh at 09:00 CET

The bot handles:
- Displaying spawn data in Discord
- Interactive button interface for marking checks
- Boss announcements and signups
- Per-server configuration

For API details, see [tibia-nemesis-api/README.md](tibia-nemesis-api/README.md).

### Adding a New Feature

1. Create `features/YourFeature.py` extending `IFeature`
2. Implement `on_ready()` to register commands
3. Register in `main.py`:
   ```python
   self.features = [
       YourFeature(self),
       # ... other features
   ]
   ```

## Troubleshooting

### Bot shows no spawnable bosses

1. Check API is running: `curl http://localhost:8080/api/v1/status`
2. Verify world is configured: `/checkerworld`
3. Force refresh: `/checkerrefresh`
4. Check bot logs for API connection errors
5. Verify `API_BASE_URL` environment variable is correct

### Commands not appearing

1. Wait a few minutes for Discord to sync
2. Check bot has "Use Slash Commands" permission
3. Restart bot to re-register commands

### API Issues

See [tibia-nemesis-api/GETTING_STARTED.md](tibia-nemesis-api/GETTING_STARTED.md) for API troubleshooting.

## Performance Notes

- **Debounced updates**: Button clicks are debounced to prevent rate limits
- **Message caching**: Messages are cached to avoid repeated API calls
- **Smart refresh**: Only updates when visual state changes
- **Cached spawn data**: Percentage map cached per guild (60s TTL)

## License

MIT License - See LICENSE file for details

## Contributing

Contributions welcome! Please:
1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Test your changes
4. Submit a pull request

## Support

For issues and questions:
- GitHub Issues: [Create an issue](https://github.com/andresaaf/tibia-nemesis-bot-discord/issues)
- Discord: Join our community server (link TBD)

## Credits

- Boss spawn data from [tibia-statistic.com](https://www.tibia-statistic.com/)
- Built with [discord.py](https://github.com/Rapptz/discord.py)
- API built with Go and [chi router](https://github.com/go-chi/chi)
